# Project Goals

The primary goals of this design are accessibility and openness.  As the DIY 3D
printing world has progressed, it's popularity has grown and the skills and
time commitment required to build a printer have steadily dropped.  This design
is an attempt to continue that trend of greater accessibility.  As that
community has grown, it has also remained creative and vibrant due to the free
and open exchange of ideas and designs, such that no one is in a position to
prevent another person from building and improving on a good idea.  This
printer is intended to contribute to this growing open-hardware ecosystem.

To pursue these abstract goals, it is useful to set a few specific, measurable
goals to test our success in a more rigorous fashion.  In terms of
accessibility, one of the first barriers people often encounter is that they
have not seen a 3D printer first hand, and thus their imagination hasn't really
been primed for noticing ways they might use such a tool.  To address this, the
printer should be easy to share with friends and family, so that you can easily
bring it along when visiting your 11 year old niece or nephew or your friend
who is an artist or maker.  This gives us our first goal:

  - *Goal 1*: The printer should be able to be disassembled and packed in a
    typical airline carry-on bag in less than 5 minutes, and then reassembled in
    less than 5 minutes (all by an expert, meaning someone with considerable
    experience with this particular printer design).

One of the second barriers that people encounter once they know about 3D printing
is the time investment required to build a printer.  It typically takes tens of
hours to build one's first printer, and than an equal amount of time to tune it
to produce reasonably accurate prints.  If an enthusiast could make the offer
of "give me a weekend and we'll build a printer", many more people might be
willing to start dabbling with building printers and printing objects.  This
gives us our next set of goals:

  - *Goal 2*: A novice (someone who has not built a 3D printer or similar device
    before) with guidance from an expert (but not hands-on help) should be able
    to assemble the printer in a single day from a set of printed parts and
    hardware that can be easily ordered.
  - *Goal 3*: A novice (again with guidance) should be able to calibrate their
    newly built printer in a single day well enough to print out the printed
    parts to build another printer of equal quality.

In order to not waste the time and enthusiasm of novices, we set some goals
that an expert can test.  In particular, we use the assumption (from an old
physics professor) that a novice will take about four times longer than an
expert to complete a task.

  - *Goal 4*: An expert should be able to build the printer from parts in 2-3
    hours.
  - *Goal 5*: In 2-3 hours, an expert should be able to calibrate the printer
    well enough to print parts for a second printer of equal quality.

In order to maintain the the openness and ease of modification and improvement
that has characterized much of the hardware in the 3D printer movement, we also
set the following goals:

  - *Goal 6*: All original designs should be available under an open-hardware
    license.
  - *Goal 7*: All original designs should be able to be viewed, modified, and
    printed with freely available open-source software.
  - *Goal 8*: All components required to build the printer should be able to be
    sourced from multiple manufacturers.

Note that each of these goals are testable and can be documented in a way that
can be verified by a third party (making it hard to deceive oneself about the
success of one's endeavor).  For simplicity of testing, we will interpret the
goals 2 and 3 as having been achieved if at least one novice is able to do so
at least once (and not tackle the more difficult measurement of a typical
attempt of a typical novice).  Similarly a single success by an expert will be
considered sufficient to satisfy goals 1, 4, and 5.
